docs/1-set-up.mdx, before:

---
name: 1 - Set Up
menu: Tinder For Cats
route: /tinder-for-cats/set-up
---


import Code from '../components/code'

# Set Up

| Project Goal           |Make an awesome React App                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| What you’ll learn | Create a React App that will get data from an API and change it locally                                                                                     |
| Tools you’ll need      | A modern browser like Chrome. Access to [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) |
| Time needed to complete     | 1 hour                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Just want to try the app?   | [CodeSandbox link](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/SaraVieira/workshop-one-components)                                                                                                                      |

## Create a new Sandbox

We will start from scratch in CodeSandbox so let's start by creating a new React Sandbox and you can do this by clicking [here](https://codesandbox.io/s/new)

## The code

When creating a new Sandbox we get a `index.js` with the following code:

<Code code={`
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
\n
import "./styles.css";
\n
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <h1>Hello CodeSandbox</h1>
      <h2>Start editing to see some magic happen!</h2>
    </div>
  );
}
\n
const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<App />, rootElement);
`} />

Going piece by piece we first import `react` and `react-dom`. We use React to define our components and ReactDOM to actually show them in the DOM.

The DOM is what the browser shows on the screen. In these two lines:

<Code code={`
const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<App />, rootElement);
`} />

We are telling ReactDOM to get the [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) we generated in our function and attach it to the DOM so we can see it in our page. You can think of JSX as being similar to HTML, the biggest difference is that we use `className` instead of `class`.

JSX is nothing more than Javascript disguised in form of HTML.To know more about how React internally converts the JSX to Javascript object.Checkout [link](https://bit.ly/2RfpnO6).

## Changes to the template

In React there are two kinds of components: class components and functional components. This page uses a functional component (you can tell because it starts with a `function` keyword). This means it only returns [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) and does no changes to data inside of it.

In our case we need to a lot of stuff in our component so we need a class component because this will allow us to change data and also store some values inside the component.

To turn it into a class component we need to first import `Component` from React and we do it like this:

<Code code={`import React, { Component } from 'react'`} />

> If you are not used to this syntax this means we are importing what the react package exports by default and also another function it gives us access to.

#### Converting functional component to a class

In class components there is only one required method and that is the `render` method. This is where we tell React what we want to put in the DOM.

Knowing this we end up with this:

<Code code={`
class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div className="App">
        <h1>Hello CodeSandbox</h1>
        <h2>Start editing to see some magic happen!</h2>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
`} />

There are not a lot of changes for now but this will allows us to continue making our component better and better.

Commit message:

more description for stateless and typo fixed (#11)
some info on stateless component
some typ fixed

docs/1-set-up.mdx, after:

---
name: 1 - Set Up
menu: Tinder For Cats
route: /tinder-for-cats/set-up
---


import Code from '../components/code'

# Set Up

| Project Goal           |Make an awesome React App                                                                                                                           |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| What you’ll learn | Create a React App that will get data from an API and change it locally                                                                                     |
| Tools you’ll need      | A modern browser like Chrome. Access to [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) |
| Time needed to complete     | 1 hour                                                                                                                                                                        |
| Just want to try the app?   | [CodeSandbox link](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/SaraVieira/workshop-one-components)                                                                                                                      |

## Create a new Sandbox

We will start from scratch in CodeSandbox so let's start by creating a new React Sandbox and you can do this by clicking [here](https://codesandbox.io/s/new)

## The code

When creating a new Sandbox we get a `index.js` with the following code:

<Code code={`
import React from "react";
import ReactDOM from "react-dom";
\n
import "./styles.css";
\n
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <h1>Hello CodeSandbox</h1>
      <h2>Start editing to see some magic happen!</h2>
    </div>
  );
}
\n
const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<App />, rootElement);
`} />

Going piece by piece we first import `react` and `react-dom`. We use React to define our components and ReactDOM to actually show them in the DOM.

The DOM is what the browser shows on the screen. In these two lines:

<Code code={`
const rootElement = document.getElementById("root");
ReactDOM.render(<App />, rootElement);
`} />

We are telling ReactDOM to render the [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) we generated in our function and attach it to the DOM so we can see it in our page.So simply ReactDOM here decides where you should render the JSX which should be shown on the UI. You can think of JSX as being similar to HTML, the biggest difference is that we use `className` instead of `class`.

JSX is nothing more than Javascript disguised in form of HTML.To know more about how React internally converts the JSX to Javascript object.Checkout [link](https://bit.ly/2RfpnO6).

## Changes to the template

In React there are two kinds of components: class components and functional components. This example uses a functional(a.k.a. stateless) component (you can tell because it starts with a `function` keyword). This means it only returns [JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html) and does no changes to data inside of it. This is also called Stateless Component.

In our case we need a lot of stuff in our component so we need a class component because this will allow us to change data and also store some values inside the component.

To turn it into a class component we need to first import `Component` from React and we do it like this:

<Code code={`import React, { Component } from 'react'`} />

> If you are not used to this syntax this means we are importing what the react package exports by default and also another function it gives us access to.

#### Converting functional component to a class

In class components there is only one required method and that is the `render` method. This is where we tell React what we want to put in the DOM and show in the DOM tree.

Knowing this we end up with this:

<Code code={`
class App extends Component {
  render() {
    return (
      <div className="App">
        <h1>Hello CodeSandbox</h1>
        <h2>Start editing to see some magic happen!</h2>
      </div>
    )
  }
}
`} />

There are not a lot of changes for now but this will allows us to continue making our component better and better.
